So that is how we can upload artifacts
and you also saw how they can be accessed manually.
Now let's say we wanna use these artifacts
in a deploy job though
because that would, of course, be reasonable to assume.
We're generating those files here
in the build job and now let's say this deploy job
does not just output some dummy message as it does here,
but instead, it really takes those files
and stores them on a web server.
I'm not doing this here
because there's a broad variety of web hosting providers
and most of them provide their own actions
that could be used for uploading files to them
and it's simply not the main focus of the course.
That's why we have this dummy script here,
though we will see a complete deployment process
a little bit later in the course.
But let's simply assume
that we're really using those files here.
And if we're doing that,
if that's the plan in this deploy job,
then we, of course, need a way
of getting hold of the files produced
and uploaded in the previous job.
Now, since these jobs run on their own runners,
every job gets its own runner machine.
The files that are produced in the build job
will not automatically exist in the deploy job
because this runs on a different machine,
even though it has the same runner definition
but it's a different machine on which this job
will be executed.
So in order to get those artifacts
that were updated in the previous job,
we need to download them here in this job.
Therefore here, I'll add a new step,
which I'll name Get build artifacts
and then here we can use another action provided
by the GitHub team
and that is the download-artifact action.
And here I'll also use version three.
So we get the upload-artifact action,
which does exactly what the name implies
and we get the download-artifact action,
which also does what the name implies.
It will download the artifacts uploaded
by a previous upload artifact action.
Therefore, it's, of course, important
that we have this needs definition here
because this deploy job must run
after the build job
because if it would run in parallel,
we of course couldn't download the artifacts
because they wouldn't have been uploaded yet.
Now, for this download-artifact action,
we also must add some configuration here
with the with key
because we, of course, must specify the artifact identifier,
otherwise the workflow would not know
which artifacts to download.
You can upload multiple artifacts in one
and the same job or in different jobs
and that's why the identifier is important.
So if we're here for download-artifact,
you also add the name key
and then we should use the same name as we used
for uploading artifacts, dist-files in my case.
This ensures that we download the right artifacts here
and what this will do is it will simply grab the zip file
that is produced by upload-artifact,
download it and unzip it here.
So therefore, thereafter these dist-files
will be available in this deployed job.
What's important to note though
is that we'll loose the dist-folder
and all the files that were in the dist folder
will directly be available here
in the folder in which this deploy job runs.
You can see this if we output the contents here
and we run the simple ls commend,
which lists all the contents
of the folder in which we currently are.
Here we should see that we simply have all the contents
of the dist folder available in that folder
in which the deploy job runs.
And that could be important for uploading them
so that we don't try to navigate into some dist folder first
and grab the files from in there
but that instead the files
that were in the dist folder
will directly be available here
because that is how they will be unpacked here
by download-artifact.
Now, enough of the talking.
To make this a bit easier to grasp,
I will simply stage those changes,
create a new commit,
added download artifact action,
and push this, and just as before,
the job will, of course, run automatically
since I'm pushing to main.
So again, we can wait for this workflow to complete
so that we can then analyze what happened in deploy.
The workflow finished here
and if we now click into this deploy job,
we can see that we've got our build artifacts here
and new see that the total number of files downloaded
was five in the end
because it unpacked those artifacts automatically for us.
And under output contents,
we see that after running ls,
which simply lists the contents
of the folder we're currently in,
we got all the content of the dist folder in here.
So that's what I meant.
We don't see the dist folder here
into which we would have to navigate
in order to access these files
but instead we have the files themselves already.
And that's just something to keep in mind
if you would be using these files in subsequent steps.
And that's how we can upload and download our artifacts,
both manually and automatically.